Hi! I created this repository for people to access the code I used during my Master thesis. 
The analysis was originally performed in an R markdown file. 
Feel free to start a discussion if questions arise!


**Quantifying the Influence of Local Human Presence on Biodiversity Change Measurements**

Ecosystem destabilisation through human-driven biodiversity loss is one of the most pressing issues in the Anthropocene. Quantifying biodiversity loss typically relies on comparing impacted sites to local "reference" sites through space-for-time substitution, assuming the latter be a pristine baseline. However, the global extent of Human presence challenges this assumption. To assess how regional human presence distorts reported biodiversity loss, we conducted a global meta-analysis of 405 control-impact comparisons across land-use and pollution disturbance studies against the Human Footprint Index. We identified a robust, asymptotic relationship: reported species losses are most severe when comparing impacted sites to pristine reference sites, but these losses diminish toward zero as regional human presence at the reference sites increases. This magnitude of this effect is further modulated by continental identity. In highly modified landscapes, particularly in Europe, species richness appears stable on average between control and impact sites. This study argues that this stability is not evidence of ecological resilience but a symptom of a “baseline depletion effect”, a statistical artifact resulting from historical ecosystem degradation where vulnerable organisms have been filtered out of reference sites prior to measurement. Consequently, standard methodologies systematically underestimate the magnitude of global biodiversity loss by measuring change from an already shifted baseline. To address this, we propose a baseline calibration approach. By statistically accounting for the degree of human pressure at reference sites, conservation assessments can reveal the true extent of the Anthropocene extinction crisis and better prioritise conservation resources to protect remaining intact ecosystems. 
